hi and welcome to the digital digging
YouTube channel in this video we're
taking a look at the j 2 m3 raiden or
thunderbolt both in history and in the
game of war thunder the specification
for the j2m was this you'd in 1939 when
Japan was in the process of creating
what it called the Greater East Asia
co-prosperity sphere which included
areas of freshly captured territory and
was anticipated to require protection
from high altitude bombers to this end a
local Rapid Response aircraft was
ordered and the job went to Mitsubishi
the lead designer of the Mitsubishi team
Jiro horikoshi was best known for
creating the a6m zero famous for its
demonic maneuverability and turn
fighting capabilities but for this new
project he had to set those factors
aside and concentrate on two things
climb rate and hitting power the first
of these two considerations is apparent
from the looks of the aircraft with all
its surfaces being curved to minimize
drag a necessary requirement which
resulted in a very distinctive stubby
yet sleek appearance it also called for
a powerful engine however choice was
limited and the early models employed
the Mitsubishi Kassai 13 radial engine
which was eventually replaced by the mk4
are a casa 23a an improvement on the 13
but still not quite ideal the armaments
consisted of four twenty millimeter
cannon two in the nose and two in the
wings but by the time the j2m three was
being developed all four cannon were
shifted to the wings the outermost two
of which were type 99 model once and the
inner most of which were the faster
firing type 99 model tues a later model
the j2m 38 saw the slower guns replaced
with another set of model tues the drive
for lowering drag also created the large
curved windscreen however the pilots
complained of visual distortion which is
to say the least extremely inconvenient
when your life depends on your ability
to spot other aircraft this was
rectified by the inclusion of optically
flat panels and by the time the J 2 m3
rolled of production lines in late
nineteen forty-three many of the
teething troubles with this aircraft
been addressed if not entirely overcome
more j2m threes entered service than any
other model with around 260 being
completed but more models were to follow
including the j2m for model 34 which
came with a pair of shraga music style
obliquely mounted 20-millimeter cannon
fitted behind the cockpit however
difficulties with the turbo supercharger
led to this variant being discontinued
as the war rumbled to its terminus and
the Greater East Asia co-prosperity
sphere began to shrink and shrink Allied
bombers began to encounter the j2m three
defensive interceptor more frequently
the j2m three proved to be very good at
its job and met with considerable
success prompting one aviation writer to
note that it was either unfortunate for
the Japanese or lucky for the Allies
that the j2m was not more reliable and
available in greater numbers in the game
the j2 entry Raiden is a tier four
aircraft with a battle rating of 5.0 it
has a maximum speed of 385 miles per
hour or six hundred and twenty
kilometers per hour and a turn time of
twenty point two seconds it's armed with
a pair of 20 millimeter type 99 mark 1
cannon with 380 rounds of ammunition and
a reload time of 40 seconds and a pair
of 20 millimeter type 99 mark 2 cannon
with 420 rounds of ammunition also with
a real a time of 40 seconds it can also
carry a bomb load of 264 pounds or 120
kilograms as in history this aircraft is
pretty much only good at one thing so
get upstairs as fast as you can and stay
there hunt bombers and perhaps the odd
straight fighter but try and maintain
altitude and avoid engaging turn
fighters against your advantage of all
costs flying the j2 entry can be a
rewarding experience but you will need
to get to know her well before playing
with anything but the utmost caution
right then that's it for another video I
hope you enjoyed it and we'll be back
for more at some point you can help me
out by hitting the like button if you so
choose and if you haven't subscribed
already now is an excellent time to
remedy the situation or not Fraulein oh
you're not even listening to this bit
i'm just talking to myself like a lost
goose honking in the fog anyway if
you're there cheerio and I
to see you next time bye bye
you